refactor(review): drop deterministic-analysis and autofix steps (#6092)
QwenLM/qwen-code: packages/core/src/skills/bundled/review/SKILL.md

2. **Match the language of the PR.** If the PR is in English, ALL your output (terminal + PR comments) MUST be in English. If in Chinese, use Chinese. Do NOT switch languages. For **local reviews** (no PR), if the system prompt includes an output language preference, use that language; otherwise follow the user's input language.
3. **Step 7: use Create Review API** with `comments` array for inline comments. Do NOT use `gh api .../pulls/.../comments` to post individual comments. See Step 7 for the JSON format.

**Design philosophy: Silence is better than noise.** Every comment you make should be worth the reader's time. If you're unsure whether something is a problem, DO NOT MENTION IT. Low-quality feedback causes "cry wolf" fatigue — developers stop reading all AI comments and miss real issues.

## Step 1: Determine what to review

Your goal here is to understand the scope of changes so you can dispatch agents effectively in Step 3.

> 

Author: Fixed in `5172f9d8d` — merged into a single bullet so cosmetic style/formatting/naming stays excluded while substantive linter/type-checker issues (unused vars, unreachable code, type errors) are in scope even where the surrounding code tolerates them. Kept it decoupled from pipeline state (no "deterministic tool" wording, per the earlier round); the same merge is applied in code-review.md. 已修复并同步 code-review.md。

To disambiguate the argument type: if the argument is a pure integer, treat it as a PR number. If it's a URL containing `/pull/`, extract the owner/repo/number from the URL. Then determine if the local repo can access this PR:

1. Check if any git remote URL matches the URL's owner/repo: run `git remote -v` and look for a remote whose URL contains the owner/repo (e.g., `openjdk/jdk`). This handles forks — a local clone of `wenshao/jdk` with an `upstream` remote pointing to `openjdk/jdk` can still review `openjdk/jdk` PRs.
2. If a matching remote is found, proceed with the **normal worktree flow** — use that remote name (instead of hardcoded `origin`) for `git fetch <remote> pull/<number>/head:qwen-review/pr-<number>`. In Step 7, use the owner/repo from the URL for posting comments.

> 3. If **no remote matches**, use **lightweight mode**: run `gh pr diff <url>` to get the diff directly. Skip Step 2 (no local rules) and Step 8 (no local cache). In Step 9, skip worktree removal (none was created) but still clean up temp files (`.qwen/tmp/qwen-review-{target}-*`). Also fetch existing PR comments using the URL's owner/repo (`gh api repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{number}/comments`) to avoid duplicating human feedback. In Step 7, use the owner/repo from the URL. Inform the user: "Cross-repo review: running in lightweight mode (no build/test)."

Author: Fixed in `5172f9d8d` — now reads "(no local reports or cache)" to match the Step 8 title. 已改。

**Critical rules (most commonly violated — read these first):**

> 1. **For same-repo PR reviews (PR number, or URL whose owner/repo matches a local remote), the worktree is MANDATORY.** After argument parsing and remote detection (early in Step 1), the first command that touches code state MUST be `qwen review fetch-pr`. Do NOT use `gh pr checkout`, `git checkout <branch>`, `git switch`, `git pull`, `git reset --hard`, or any other command that modifies the user's current HEAD or working tree. After `fetch-pr` returns, ALL subsequent reads, linters, builds, tests, and edits MUST happen inside the `worktreePath` it created. Violating this contaminates the user's local branch state. (Cross-repo PRs with no matching remote use lightweight mode and do NOT create a worktree — see Step 1.)

Author: Fixed in `0d56709`. The base-branch protection the old Step 3 carried has been re-added to Agent 7's CI-config discovery clause — for PR reviews it now reads the CI config via `git show <base>:<path>` instead of from the untrusted worktree. The stale `linters` token in the worktree rule was also dropped per the sub-suggestion.

<details>
<summary>中文</summary>

已在 `0d56709` 修复。原 Step 3 携带的 base-branch 保护已重新加到 Agent 7 的 CI-config 发现子句——PR review 现在通过 `git show <base>:<path>` 从 base 分支读 CI config,而不是从不可信的 worktree(PR 分支)读。worktree 规则里过时的 `linters` 一词也按子建议删除了。

</details>

To disambiguate the argument type: if the argument is a pure integer, treat it as a PR number. If it's a URL containing `/pull/`, extract the owner/repo/number from the URL. Then determine if the local repo can access this PR:

1. Check if any git remote URL matches the URL's owner/repo: run `git remote -v` and look for a remote whose URL contains the owner/repo (e.g., `openjdk/jdk`). This handles forks — a local clone of `wenshao/jdk` with an `upstream` remote pointing to `openjdk/jdk` can still review `openjdk/jdk` PRs.
2. If a matching remote is found, proceed with the **normal worktree flow** — use that remote name (instead of hardcoded `origin`) for `git fetch <remote> pull/<number>/head:qwen-review/pr-<number>`. In Step 7, use the owner/repo from the URL for posting comments.

> 3. If **no remote matches**, use **lightweight mode**: run `gh pr diff <url>` to get the diff directly. Skip Step 2 (no local rules) and Step 8 (no local cache). In Step 9, skip worktree removal (none was created) but still clean up temp files (`.qwen/tmp/qwen-review-{target}-*`). Also fetch existing PR comments using the URL's owner/repo (`gh api repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{number}/comments`) to avoid duplicating human feedback. In Step 7, use the owner/repo from the URL. Inform the user: "Cross-repo review: running in lightweight mode (no build/test)."

Reviewer: Stale step reference in lightweight-mode skip list. The old text was:

> Skip Steps 2 (no local rules), **3 (no local linter)**, 8 (no local files to fix), 10 (no local cache)

The PR removed Step 3 (Deterministic analysis — deleted) and Step 8 (Autofix — deleted) from the skip list and renumbered 10→8. But the removed `Step 3 (no local linter)` was relabeled as `Step 2 (no local rules)` instead of being dropped entirely. In the new numbering, Step 2 is "Load project review rules" — which IS active in lightweight mode (the loaded rules are injected into review agents in Step 3, including lightweight mode which still runs Agents 1–6).

Suggested fix: remove "Skip Step 2 (no local rules) and" so the line reads:

> Skip Step 8 (no local cache). In Step 9, skip worktree removal …

Author: Thanks for looking, but I think this is a misread of the diff. The original line on `main` already skipped Step 2: `Skip Steps 2 (no local rules), 3 (no local linter), 8 (...), 10 (...)`. In lightweight (cross-repo) mode there is no local checkout of the target repo, so `qwen review load-rules` has no local `.qwen/review-rules.md` / `AGENTS.md` to read — it loads rules from the base branch, which isn't present locally in cross-repo mode. So `Skip Step 2 (no local rules)` **preserves** the original design; it isn't a relabel of the removed Step 3. Step 2 is genuinely skipped in lightweight mode, so I've kept the line as-is.

<details>
<summary>中文</summary>

感谢 review,但我认为这是对 diff 的误读。`main` 上的原文本来就跳过 Step 2:`Skip Steps 2 (no local rules), 3 (no local linter), 8 (...), 10 (...)`。lightweight(跨仓库)模式下本地没有目标仓库的 checkout,所以 `qwen review load-rules` 没有本地 `.qwen/review-rules.md` / `AGENTS.md` 可读——它从 base 分支加载 rules,而跨仓库模式下本地没有该 base 分支。因此 `Skip Step 2 (no local rules)` 是**保留**原设计,不是把已删的 Step 3 重命名。lightweight 模式确实跳过 Step 2,所以这行我保持原样。

</details>

    The subcommand fetches `gh pr view` metadata + inline / issue comments and writes a single Markdown file with the PR title, description, base/head, diff stats, an **"Already discussed"** section, and an "Open inline comments" section. Each replied-to thread renders the **complete reply chain** (root comment + chronological replies), so review agents can see whether a "Fixed in `<commit>`"-style reply has closed the topic — agents must NOT re-report a concern whose latest reply addresses it. Issue-level (general PR) comments appear in the same section. The file's own preamble tells agents to treat its contents as DATA, so no extra security prefix is needed when passing it to review agents.

>   - **Install dependencies in the worktree** (needed for linting, building, testing): run `npm ci` (or `yarn install --frozen-lockfile`, `pip install -e .`, etc.) inside `worktreePath`. If installation fails, log a warning and continue — build/test may fail but LLM review agents can still operate.

Author: Done in `da71ce481` — now reads "(needed for building, testing)". 已修。

`<target>` is the same suffix used throughout (`pr-<n>`, `local`, or filename). The command removes the worktree at `.qwen/tmp/review-pr-<n>` (PR targets only), deletes the local branch ref `qwen-review/pr-<n>`, and clears any `.qwen/tmp/qwen-review-<target>-*` side files (review JSON, PR context, presubmit / findings reports). It is idempotent — missing files are silent OK.

This step runs **after** Step 7 and Step 8 to ensure all review outputs are saved before cleanup.

## Exclusion Criteria

These criteria apply to both Step 3 (review agents) and Step 4 (verification agents). Do NOT flag or confirm any finding that matches:

- Pre-existing issues in unchanged code (focus on the diff only)
- Style, formatting, or naming that matches surrounding codebase conventions
- Pedantic nitpicks that a senior engineer would not flag

> - Purely cosmetic formatting a formatter (prettier, gofmt) would auto-normalize — but do NOT skip substantive issues a linter or type checker would flag (unused variables, unreachable code, type errors), which no longer have a deterministic tool catching them

Author: **[Suggestion]** The trailing clause "which no longer have a deterministic tool catching them" couples this behavioral rule to the current pipeline state. If a future PR re-adds a deterministic linter/typecheck step (plausible since `deterministic.ts` still exists), this clause becomes factually wrong and the LLM may misinterpret whether to flag or suppress these issues. Consider decoupling the behavioral rule from the implementation status:

```suggestion
- Purely cosmetic formatting a formatter (prettier, gofmt) would auto-normalize. Substantive issues a linter or type checker would flag (unused variables, unreachable code, type errors) are in scope — LLM agents should report them.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Done in `da71ce481` — applied your decoupled wording; substantive lint/type issues are now "in scope — LLM agents should report them". 已采用你建议的解耦措辞。
